Welcome to the fundamentals of butchery.
Today we're going to take you through
some poultry techniques.
My name is chef Chris
Loizou and I work at George Brown College.
So here
we have the wings and the wing tips.
We have the breasts.
If I turn it to the side,
you can see the thigh
and the leg, the back of the chicken.
Here is the back and the neck.
And these two little nodules,
they are known as the oyster.
If we flip the bird around,
we like to push the legs into the breast
so it'll plump up.
And we do this for a couple of reasons.
When we're going to trust it,
we trust it to promote
even cooking and to keep its shape
when we take it out of the oven.
So before I do that,
I like to let the bird stand up straight
when I'm going to actually roast it.
The way I do that is I take the wing tip
and I flip it over to create a V pattern.
I do the same thing on the other side.
This will help it sit up straight
and again just gently
push the legs into the breasts.
This is your end goal.
You're going to take some twine
and you're going to put it
under the bum of the chicken.
And just like you do your laces,
you make sure that they're even
you're going to take one
part of the string and flip it over
and the other
you flip it over the other knuckle
to create like an eight
figure eight and you're going to sort of
push it together.
And you have to be tight,
your other part here
is this guy go underneath to hold out one
wing down and the other string
is going to go on the other side
to hold the other wing down.
And here the neck.
We're going to tie it like once
- the way we tie her shoe and then twice
and we're going to pull and when we pull,
this will plump up the breast
and then we're just going to tie
a knot and get rid of the excess string.
And this is how we
truss a bird ready to roast.